Welcome back everyone to this final part of Derek drawing with the mouse in three we're going to show
you how you can draw rectangles by actually calculating as you're dragging the mouse.
So we start from scratch.
That way we can get a review of the other concepts we've covered in parts 1 and Part 2.
Let's get started.
For this project we're going to be initializing a black image.
And then when the mouse button is click down and then dragged over we're going to slowly be building
out a rectangle and then you can release your mouse and then you're no longer drawing a rectangle.
So that's the main project we're going to be working on just being able to drag our mouse and then click
and create rectangles.
OK let's get started in a freshen up book.
OK.
Here we have a brand new notebook.
Let's go ahead and get started.
The first thing I want to do is our imports and remember putting this all in the same cell or an import
CB2 and important umpires and P and then they're going to break this out into sections.
The first is going to be a couple of variables we're going to be using along the way.
Zoom in one more level here.
So we're going to be in a couple of variables and then we'll have the actual function and then we'll
have a section for showing the image.
Let's start off with section of showing the image first.
And that's going to be creating the image we'll see and zeroes here and we'll say 5:12 by 5:12 by wups
three color channels.
So it's all zeros so just an empty black image.
So that's just the black image.
And then we're going to connect it using a named window.
So we'll say name window and it's up to you whatever you want to call the window name just have to be
consistent.
We'll say when name is equal to my drawing just as we've done before and then we're also going to connect
this will say CB2 dot will see a mouse callback here connecting it to the same string name my drawing
and then we're actually going to connect the function itself.
Let's define the function the draw rectangle.
What this function is going to be able to do is it's going to be able to actually draw a rectangle from
one point and then it's going to keep drawing it until you drag it and then release the mouse.
And just like the other functions that are connected through a mouse callback it takes in the actual
event of the mouse being clicked the x and y coordinates of the mouse and then any other flags or parameters
so lets connect that as a second parameter here.
Draw rectangle.
OK.
And then we need a function that actually shows and displays the image just as we then before we'll
say.
While true to him Show.
And we're going to have the same the name my drawing that connects everything together.
And then I MGE it's going to be the splaying that black drawing.
And then in order to actually be able to understand what mode we're in what we're going to do is the
following just as we've done before we'll do the following command.
We'll say if C-v to dot and then we'll say wait.
KI Well wait one millisecond and if 0 x capital F F is equals equals to 27.
Meaning the escape key was pressed break.
So this essentially checks for hitting the escape key OK.
So while this is true we'll keep showing the image until the user presses the escape key.
And then at the end of that while loop will just destroy all the windows to be safe.
So say destroy all windows open unclose princes.
So far nothing different than what we've seen before.
Most of the fence is going to come from setting up two variables since the beginning and then setting
up the function the two variables we're going to set up is a drawing variable.
And at first we're going to set it as false.
So this drawing variable what's going to happen is it's going to become true if the mouse has been pressed
down and then we're going to keep it true and say hey we're currently drawing until the mouse is lifted
back up and then we'll change it back to false meaning we're not drawing anymore.
So this is going to be true while mouse button down false while mouse button up.
So right now since the mouse by default is going to be present in press it will start off as false and
then the other ones we're going to use are X and I y else that those equal to negative 1 and negative
1 respectively.
I'm doing this kind of in a clever way with some tuple here.
You can also do this in two separate lines you could say the following like this so it's up to you whether
you want to do it in a single line or in two lines but we have the x and y and we're going to be keeping
track of those as well.
They'll make more sense as we actually work out on the straw rectangle function.
So let's continue on to that draw rectangle function.
We're going to accept some global variables here.
We want to understand I why I X and drawing and what we're going to do is say global i x y and draw
an early keep track of those three global variables that where we can change them in the global namespace
as we go along.
So I'll say I x i y and drawing essentially starting them off as false and then these coordinate points
negative 1 and negative one.
I will see in a second.
Why we use x and y and always checking for three possible events will say if event is equal to C-v two
events left button down.
So this means you just started drawing the rectangle.
So we'll say drawing is now equal to true and it will take points of where we actually started.
The mouse will say X and Y is equal to x and y where the mass currently is.
So again we just started drawing.
So I'll say drawing is equal to true.
And then we take know where that mouse is located.
When you hit that button down there will say if the event is equal to CB2 thought events mouse move
meaning you're moving or dragging the mouse actually going to start drawing the rectangle.
So I'll say if drawing is currently equal to true you could also say just if drawing Colin but I think
is a little more readable.
I'll say CB2 rectangle will take the current image and then the first point is going to be the point
where you get down on the mouse button.
So that will just be X and I y then the bottom right hand point is going to be where the mouse currently
is and that is x and y.
So that's where we have X and I y because when it comes to rectangles there's two points need to track
the first original point where you actually click down on the left mouse button and then the second
point where we actually ended up.
And that's going to be the bottom right.
So that's what x y is right there.
And then we'll go ahead and give it a color we'll say 0 2 5 5 0.
So just keep that green color and the thickness will say negative 1.
So then it's actually filled in rectangle OK.
So if you're drawing and we want to make sure we check if they're actually drawing that way we don't
kind of mess up.
And any time you're moving the mouse suddenly a rectangle gets drawn.
So how do we actually turn drawing off.
Well that's going to happen when you actually release the left mouse button so will say Elif events
is equal to CB2 events left button up which means we've released the mouse button then we're no longer
drawing so set drawing to false.
And then we'll say CB2 rectangle loops make sure I set that right.
CB2 rectangle and then we'll take in the image and then we'll kind of finish it off.
Basically this exact same thing that we wrote up here so we're going to copy and paste it.
So let's copy that and let's paste it in.
OK.
And that's all we need to do.
So let's quickly go over the logic here.
Before you run this.
So what it did was my imports I set up this drawing variable.
So it's true all the mouse button is down.
It's false while the mouse button is back up that way.
This drawing actually keeps in mind whether or not you're dragging the mouse along to create that rectangle.
And then I start off with some original x and y data points that later on will or place then when I'm
drawing the rectangle I'm going to check if the left mouse button has been clicked down.
If that's true then we're actually drawing now.
And I take a point of where the actual mouse was during that positioning which is why we have to say
global here in order to actually grab these three global variables.
Then if my mouse is moving I'm going to continuously be drawing this rectangle at the original left
button down point and then wherever the mouse currently is going to do it in green and then it's going
to be filled in and then once they lift up the mouse button I'm no longer drawing.
So I said equal to false and I finish it off by redrawing the final rectangle.
Now these rectangles are going to be continuously drawn.
So from a user perspective it won't really look like I'm continuously drawing many many rectangles.
It'll actually look like kind of a smooth rectangle.
Now if you start dragging your mouse and kind of go backwards in a way that doesn't make sense for drawing
rectangles you will realize that the pixels start to look a little weird.
Show an example of that but let's go ahead now and run this and see if everything's working.
So I run this.
Now I see my drawing here.
I'm going to click down.
And then as I slowly drag I get to see the rectangle start being built and then I release.
Now as I move my mouse the rectangle is no longer being drawn.
Now I mention because of the way we're doing this it's basically continuously drawing many many rectangles.
And so if I start going backwards in a way that doesn't make sense then you can see the rectangle start
to not really make sense anymore.
So keep in mind it's made so that you start at the top left and then go to some bottom right and if
you're always doing that then it will draw the rectangles correctly.
OK.
If you have any questions on this one please let me know and the question answer forums.
We also definitely want to check the actual note book where we've basically commented every single line
of code with an explanation in case any particular line that is confusing to you.
Thanks and we'll see at the next lecture.